# MiniCNE

MiniCNE is a University Project for developing a contract that mocks Ballots and their entire structure.

# Prerequesites

Before deploying your contract, you need to add an account managed by brownie. If you want a fresh new account, run the following command.

```bash
brownie accounts generate deployment_account
```

# Usage

The following commands make an entire electoral process from start to finish. In order to execute these commands you must enter in a brownie console by typing the command `brownie console`.

```python
acct = accounts.load('deployment_account')
contract = run('scripts/deploy.py', args=[acct])
run('scripts/genVotante.py', args=['localidades.txt', contract, acct])
run('scripts/genVotaciones.py', args=[contract, acct])
run('scripts/genVotos.py', args=[contract, acct])
for i in range(5):
    tx = contract.viewBallotInfo(i)
    print(tx.events)
    contract.nextRound(i, {'from': acct})

run('scripts/genVotos.py', args=[contract, acct, 0.05, 0.35])
for i in range(5):
    contract.closeBallot(i, {'from': acct})
    tx = contract.viewBallotInfo(i)
    print(tx.events)

```

## Step by step explanation

### Fetch deployment account

We created a deployment account in the [prerequesites](#prerequesites) step. We need to fetch that account and enter the passphrase. This is the account we will be using as the contract owner.

```python
acct = accounts.load('deployment_account')
```

### Deploy contract

```python
contract = run('scripts/deploy.py', args=[acct])
```

The previous commmands simply deploys the contract to the networks we are currently connected to. By default, brownie connects to a local development network with a node hosted by ganache.

### Create locations, centers and voters

Now we enter to some specific datastructures for our contract.

- Locations: They represent entities where electoral processes for governors can be made. A governor is elected for a specific Location. Also, centers belong to a specific location and voters belong to a specific center and location.

- Centers: They represent an space where the voter can make a vote. These centers are necessary linked to a location and can have multiple voters.

- Voters: Represented by addresses, they hold the power to vote. They are related to a specific center and location. No voter is able to participate in a vote of a location different than his, unless the election is a presidential election.

These three entities can be only generated by the contract owner. To generate these structures, run the following command:

```python
run('scripts/genVotante.py', args=['localidades.txt', contract, acct])
```

### Create ballots (Electoral processes)

So once we have locations, centers and voters, we have everything to start an electoral process. There are two types of ballots:

- Governor Ballot: They represent an electoral process for a specific location, where only voters from that location can vote and only voters from the specific location can be candidates.

- President Ballot: They represent a global electoral process. Everyone can vote and anyone can be a candidate.

The following command generates a ballot for each location and a presidential ballot. It also selects a 1% of the voters for each ballot to be candidates (minimum 2 candidates will be selected), and opens the electoral processes for voting:

```python
run('scripts/genVotaciones.py', args=[contract, acct])
```

### Voting process

Now that ballots are open, voters can submit their votes. The following script generates votes for each ballot with a random abstention percentage. The default abstention percentage range is from 10% to 30%, but it can easily be modified:

```python
run('scripts/genVotos.py', args=[contract, acct])
```

### Ballots Summary

Now that people have voted, we can see the current results for a ballot. The following command will print on your screen the results of a specific ballot:

```python
tx = contract.viewBallotInfo(0)
print(tx.events)
```

Lets study an example output:

```python
{'ViewBallotResultsByLocation': [OrderedDict([('round', 1), ('candidateAddress', '0x00eb3Ab11f470FBFCc58116382D7cd4242C57E7a'), ('votesCount', 9), ('location', 'Amazonas'), ('percentage', 56)]), OrderedDict([('round', 1), ('candidateAddress', '0x6a3668D2430DA575989198DEdEE9382f31917d0D'), ('votesCount', 7), ('location', 'Amazonas'), ('percentage', 43)])], 'WinnerResult': [OrderedDict([('round', 1), ('candidateAddress', '0x00eb3Ab11f470FBFCc58116382D7cd4242C57E7a'), ('votesCount', 9), ('percentage', 56), ('totalVotes', 16), ('abstention', 12)])]}
```

Prettifying this output we get the following:

```python
{
    'ViewBallotResultsByLocation': [
        OrderedDict(
            [
                ('round', 1),
                ('candidateAddress', '0x00eb3Ab11f470FBFCc58116382D7cd4242C57E7a'),
                ('votesCount', 9),
                ('location', 'Amazonas'),
                ('percentage', 56)
            ]
        ),
        OrderedDict(
            [
                ('round', 1),
                ('candidateAddress', '0x6a3668D2430DA575989198DEdEE9382f31917d0D'),
                ('votesCount', 7),
                ('location', 'Amazonas'),
                ('percentage', 43)
            ]
        )
    ],
    'WinnerResult': [
        OrderedDict(
            [
                ('round', 1),
                ('candidateAddress', '0x00eb3Ab11f470FBFCc58116382D7cd4242C57E7a'),
                ('votesCount', 9),
                ('percentage', 56),
                ('totalVotes', 16),
                ('abstention', 12)
            ]
        )
    ]
}
```

Lets explain some of these fields:

- `ViewBallotResultsByLocation`: It contains the results for a location or governor ballot.
    - `round`: Specifies which round is the ballot currently in. Every ballot has 2 rounds. The second round contains the best two candidates from the first round.
    - `candidateAddress`: Identifies the specific candidate. Candidates must also be voters.
    - `votesCount`: Votes for a specific candidate.
    - `location`: Location of the ballot.
    - `percentage`: Percentage of the `totalVotes` that a candidate collected.
- `WinnerResult`: Contains the information about the winner for a specific ballot and a specific round.
    - `round`: Specific round (1 or 2).
    - `candidateAddress`: The address of the winner so far.
    - `votesCount`: The number of votes of the winner.
    - `totalVotes`: The number of voters that participated in the ballot.
    - `abstention`: The percentage of abstention in the specific location.

For a presidential ballot, the only difference is that we do not get a `location` field. Everything else will be the same.

### Moving to second round

Now that we have voted in the first round, we are ready to enter in the second round.

```python
for i in range(5):
    contract.nextRound(i, {'from': acct})

```

The second round consists of a ballot of the same location but with only the two best performing candidates from the first round.

> Currently we do not handle draw cases.

To [vote](#voting-process) in the second round the process is the same as for the first round.

# Tests

We made tests for every function in the contract. We encourage you to go to the tests folder to see an example of the contract usage. To run every test, you can use `brownie test`.
